README.md, before:

# Using this template

This is my template repository to use when creating new npm packages written in TypeScript. The top section of this readme is for how to use it to start a new package, and should be removed as part of the setup process.

## Setup

You will need to install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) before using this template.

1. Click "[Use this template](https://github.com/cipscis/base-package/generate)" to create a new repository based on this one.
2. Update names throughout the package.
	a. Replace `base-package` with the name of your package as it is used in code.
	b. Replace `Base Package` Replace with the name of your package as it is used in documentation.
	c. Rename `src/main-export.ts` and replace `main-export` with the name of your main entry point file.
	d. Optionally rename `docs/assets/js/src/docs-script.ts` and replace `docs-script` with the name of your documentation script and its associated Webpack entry point.
	e. Optionally, remove `@cipscis/` from everywhere it appears if this package won't be published beneath a scope.
	f. If you're not me, replace `@cipscis` with your npm username and then `cipscis` with your GitHub username, and be sure to also update the `author` property in the `package.json`.
3. Create a `.env` file. See [.env](#env-1) for more information.
4. Run `npm install`.
5. Update this `README.md` file and the `CHANGELOG.md` file to remove the instruction sections.

Now you're ready to work on code in this package.

## Usage

Using the files specified in `package.json`, you can create a package to be installed with npm.

In the `docs` folder, which can be deployed to GitHub Pages but is not included when your package is installed, you can document your package. Webpack is configured to have an alias for your main entry point so you can load it as though it were installed from npm, e.g. `import { foo } from '@cipscis/base-package';`

Once you have an initial version of your package ready to push, you will want to update the `version` attribute of your `package.json` file to `"1.0.0"`. See [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html) for more information on version numbers.

You should also update the `CHANGELOG.md` file to describe your changes. This is particularly important after your initial 1.0.0 version.

Then, you can run `npm publish` to publish your package. Once published, you can run `npm install @cipscis/base-package` to install the package in other projects.

## Structure

### Frontend assets

By default, your package consists of the contents of the `dist` folder. This folder is populated when the contents of the `src` folder are compiled using `tsc`, which happens automatically prior to publishing. The `src` folder contains a single TypeScript file called `main-export.ts`. You can rename this file, but if you do make sure you update the [`browser`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/configuring-npm/package-json#browser) property in your `package.json` file. If your package doesn't need to be run in a browser, you should change this property to [`main`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/configuring-npm/package-json#main).

Assets used for the package's documentation, such as CSS and JavaScript, are contained in `/docs/assets`. In here, the contents of the `scss` folder are used to compile CSS files into the `css` folder.

The `/docs/assets/js` folder contains a `src` folder and a `dist` folder. Any JavaScript or TypeScript files inside the `src` folder are bundled into the `dist` folder. By default, Webpack is configured to look for a single entry point at `/docs/assets/js/src/docs-script.ts`, which is bundled into `/docs/assets/js/dist/docs-script.bundle.js`. You can use either JavaScript or TypeScript entry points for your documentation.

### Backend assets

The Node.js server run using [Express](https://expressjs.com/) has its files inside the `/server` directory. By default, this just runs a static http server that serves files in the `/docs` directory, but it can be extended to add additional functionality.

This server only runs locally, so any additional functionality will not be available on GitHub Pages.

## Configuration

### package.json

By default, the `package.json` file is configured to set the project to be of type `module`. This means NodeJS will use ES module syntax as opposed to the default CommonJS syntax, allowing the use of `import` and `export` keywords.

For more information on the differences, see [Differences between ES modules and CommonJS](https://nodejs.org/api/esm.html#esm_differences_between_es_modules_and_commonjs)

### gulpfile.js

This file tells [Gulp](https://gulpjs.com/) which files to watch and where to output compiled assets. Some configuration for JavaScript bundling is duplicated between here and [`webpack.config.js`](#webpackconfigjs)

### webpack.config.js

This file configures [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/), telling it which entry points to use and where to output its bundled assets.

### .env

See [.env](#env-1) for information on setting up a `.env` file.

## Testing

This project comes with a small example test suite built using [Jasmine](https://jasmine.github.io/), which can be found in `/spec`. You'll want to remove this example before you commit your package's code, and replace it with your own tests.

By default, the tests are run as part of the `npm prepare` script, which runs prior to publishing your package.

## GitHub Pages

This project is set up to use a GitHub Action every time new code is pushed to the `main` branch. This `build-and-deploy` workflow runs the `build` npm script, then runs the test script, then if the tests passed it deploys the contents of the `docs` directory by committing them to a `gh-pages` branch. This `gh-pages` branch should be configured in GitHub to be published to GitHub Pages.

When publishing a project using [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/), the project usually appears at a URL with a path, such as `https://cipscis.github.io/base-package`. This means using root relative URLs such as `/assets/css/main.css` would work locally, but would break when the project is published on GitHub Pages.

To fix this, the local Node.js server looks for a `PROJECT_NAME` variable in your [`.env`](#env-1) file. If it finds one, it sets up redirects so URLs starting with `/${PROJECT_NAME}` can be used as though they were root relative, so they will find your assets.

---

**Delete everything above here when creating a new package**

---

# base-package

![Build and deploy status badge](https://github.com/cipscis/base-package/actions/workflows/build-and-deploy.yml/badge.svg)

## Install

Run `npm install @cipscis/base-package`

## Usage

See [Base Package documentation](https://cipscis.github.io/base-package/)

## Development

You will need to install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) before working on this package.

1. Clone the repository using `git clone https://github.com/cipscis/base-package.git`.
2. Run `npm install` to install development dependencies.
3. Create a [`.env`](#env) file.
4. Run `npm start` to run the local server and watch CSS and JS files for changes.

This project creates six npm tasks:

* `npm run server` runs a Node.js server on the port specified in the [`.env`](#env) file, using [Express](https://expressjs.com/).

* `npm run build` compiles CSS files using [gulp-sass](https://www.npmjs.com/package/gulp-sass), then compiles TypeScript and bundles JavaScript using [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/).

* `npm run watch` first runs the `build` task, then watches the relevant directories and reruns the `build` task if it sees any changes.

* `npm start` runs both the `server` and `watch` tasks simultaneously.

* `npm test` lints and compiles any TypeScript, then runs any configured test suites using [Jasmine](https://jasmine.github.io/).

* `npm run prepare` first removes directories containing compiled files, then lints and compiles any TypeScript, then runs any configured test suites using [Jasmine](https://jasmine.github.io/). You should never need to run this task manually, [the `prepare` script runs automatically](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/using-npm/scripts#life-cycle-scripts) when npm prepares your package for publishing.

Usually, you will just want to run `npm start`.

### .env

The `.env` file contains the following environment variables:

* `PROJECT_NAME` `(string)`

If present, used by [Express](https://expressjs.com/) to set up redirects for emulating [GitHub Pages](#github-pages).

* `MODE` `(string 'development' | 'production')`

Used by Webpack to determine what optimisations to use and how to generate sourcemaps.

* `PORT` `(int)`

Used by [Express](https://expressjs.com/) to determine which port to use when running a local Node.js server.

An example `.env` file you can use for development is:

```
PROJECT_NAME = "base-package"
MODE = "development"
PORT = "8080"
```

This file is intended to differ from environment to environment, so it is ignored by Git.

## Dependencies

None.

## Dev Dependencies

### Development

These dependencies are used when working on the project locally.

* [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/): Runtime environment

* [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/): Package manager

* [Gulp](https://gulpjs.com/): Task runner

* [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/): JavaScript extension for static type checking

* [Jasmine](https://jasmine.github.io/): Testing framework

	* [@types/jasmine](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@types/jasmine): TypeScript types for Jasmine

* [sass](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sass): Compiling CSS from [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/)

	* [gulp-sass](https://www.npmjs.com/package/gulp-sass): Using the `sass` compiler with Gulp

* [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/): For JavaScript dependency management, used with Gulp

	* [ts-loader](https://github.com/TypeStrong/ts-loader): For compiling TypeScript using Webpack

	* [resolve-typescript-plugin](https://github.com/softwareventures/resolve-typescript-plugin): For using ES Module syntax with Webpack's `ts-loader`

* [Express](https://expressjs.com/): Running a Node.js server, accessed at `http://localhost:<PORT>`

* [Concurrently](https://www.npmjs.com/package/concurrently): Running server and development build tasks concurrently

* [dotenv](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv): Reading environment variables from [`.env`](#env) file

* [eslint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/eslint): Linting TypeScript files

	* [@typescript-eslint/eslint-plugin](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@typescript-eslint/eslint-plugin): Allows `eslint` to lint TypeScript

	* [@typescript-eslint/parser](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@typescript-eslint/parser): Allows `eslint` to parse TypeScript

* [stylelint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/stylelint): Linting CSS

	* [stylelint-config-recommended-scss](https://www.npmjs.com/package/stylelint-config-recommended-scss): Allows `stylelint` to lint SCSS files, and provides a base set of SCSS linting rules

### Deploy

These dependencies are used for deploying the project to GitHub Pages.

* [checkout](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/checkout): Used to check out the repository to a workspace so it can be built

* [Deploy to GitHub Pages](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/deploy-to-github-pages): Used to deploy the project to GitHub pages once it has been built

Commit message:

Updated some packages and synced Readme with base-project

README.md, after:

# Using this template

This is my template repository to use when creating new npm packages written in TypeScript. The top section of this readme is for how to use it to start a new package, and should be removed as part of the setup process.

## Setup

You will need to install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) before using this template.

1. Click "[Use this template](https://github.com/cipscis/base-package/generate)" to create a new repository based on this one.
2. Update the `package.json` file to reflect your new package's details.
3. Update names throughout the package.
	a. Replace `base-package` with the name of your package as it is used in code.
	b. Replace `Base Package` Replace with the name of your package as it is used in documentation.
	c. Rename `src/main-export.ts` and replace `main-export` with the name of your main entry point file.
	d. Optionally rename `docs/assets/js/src/docs-script.ts` and replace `docs-script` with the name of your documentation script and its associated Webpack entry point.
	e. Optionally, remove `@cipscis/` from everywhere it appears if this package won't be published beneath a scope.
	f. If you're not me, replace `@cipscis` with your npm username and then `cipscis` with your GitHub username, and be sure to also update the `author` property in the `package.json`.
4. Create a `.env` file. See [.env](#env-1) for more information.
5. Run `npm install`.
6. Update this `README.md` file and the `CHANGELOG.md` file to remove the instruction sections.

Now you're ready to work on code in this package.

## Usage

Using the files specified in `package.json`, you can create a package to be installed with npm.

In the `docs` folder, which can be deployed to GitHub Pages but is not included when your package is installed, you can document your package. Webpack is configured to have an alias for your main entry point so you can load it as though it were installed from npm, e.g. `import { foo } from '@cipscis/base-package';`

Once you have an initial version of your package ready to push, you will want to update the `version` attribute of your `package.json` file to `"1.0.0"`. See [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html) for more information on version numbers.

You should also update the `CHANGELOG.md` file to describe your changes. This is particularly important after your initial 1.0.0 version.

Then, you can run `npm publish` to publish your package. Once published, you can run `npm install @cipscis/base-package` to install the package in other projects.

## Structure

### Frontend assets

By default, your package consists of the contents of the `dist` folder. This folder is populated when the contents of the `src` folder are compiled using `tsc`, which happens automatically prior to publishing. The `src` folder contains a single TypeScript file called `main-export.ts`. You can rename this file, but if you do make sure you update the [`browser`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/configuring-npm/package-json#browser) property in your `package.json` file. If your package doesn't need to be run in a browser, you should change this property to [`main`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/configuring-npm/package-json#main).

Assets used for the package's documentation, such as CSS and JavaScript, are contained in `/docs/assets`. In here, the contents of the `scss` folder are used to compile CSS files into the `css` folder.

The `/docs/assets/js` folder contains a `src` folder and a `dist` folder. Any JavaScript or TypeScript files inside the `src` folder are bundled into the `dist` folder. By default, Webpack is configured to look for a single entry point at `/docs/assets/js/src/docs-script.ts`, which is bundled into `/docs/assets/js/dist/docs-script.bundle.js`. You can use either JavaScript or TypeScript entry points for your documentation.

### Backend assets

The Node.js server run using [Express](https://expressjs.com/) has its files inside the `/server` directory. By default, this just runs a static http server that serves files in the `/docs` directory, but it can be extended to add additional functionality.

This server only runs locally, so any additional functionality will not be available on GitHub Pages.

## Configuration

### package.json

By default, the `package.json` file is configured to set the project to be of type `module`. This means NodeJS will use ES module syntax as opposed to the default CommonJS syntax, allowing the use of `import` and `export` keywords.

For more information on the differences, see [Differences between ES modules and CommonJS](https://nodejs.org/api/esm.html#esm_differences_between_es_modules_and_commonjs)

### gulpfile.js

This file tells [Gulp](https://gulpjs.com/) which files to watch and where to output compiled assets. Some configuration for JavaScript bundling is duplicated between here and [`webpack.config.js`](#webpackconfigjs)

### webpack.config.js

This file configures [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/), telling it which entry points to use and where to output its bundled assets. Some configuration is duplicated between here and [`gulpfile.js`](#gulpfilejs)

### .env

See [.env](#env-1) for information on setting up a `.env` file.

## Testing

This project comes with a small example test suite built using [Jasmine](https://jasmine.github.io/), which can be found in `/spec`. You'll want to remove this example before you commit your package's code, and replace it with your own tests.

By default, the tests are run as part of the `npm prepare` script, which runs prior to publishing your package.

## GitHub Pages

This project is set up to use a GitHub Action every time new code is pushed to the `main` branch. This `build-and-deploy` workflow runs the `build` npm script, then runs the test script, then if the tests passed it deploys the contents of the `docs` directory by committing them to a `gh-pages` branch. This `gh-pages` branch should be configured in GitHub to be published to GitHub Pages.

When publishing a project using [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/), the project usually appears at a URL with a path, such as `https://cipscis.github.io/base-package`. This means using root relative URLs such as `/assets/css/main.css` would work locally, but would break when the project is published on GitHub Pages.

To fix this, the local Node.js server looks for a `PROJECT_NAME` variable in your [`.env`](#env-1) file. If it finds one, it sets up redirects so URLs starting with `/${PROJECT_NAME}` can be used as though they were root relative, so they will find your assets.

By default, the `index.html` file is configured to be published to GitHub Pages under the project name `base-package`. When you use it as a base for your own project, you will need to update these URLs.

---

**Delete everything above here when creating a new package**

---

# base-package

![Build and deploy status badge](https://github.com/cipscis/base-package/actions/workflows/build-and-deploy.yml/badge.svg)

## Install

Run `npm install @cipscis/base-package`

## Usage

See [Base Package documentation](https://cipscis.github.io/base-package/)

## Development

You will need to install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) before working on this package.

1. Clone the repository using `git clone https://github.com/cipscis/base-package.git`.
2. Run `npm install` to install development dependencies.
3. Create a [`.env`](#env) file.
4. Run `npm start` to run the local server and watch CSS and JS files for changes.

This project creates the following npm scripts:

* `npm run server` runs a Node.js server on the port specified in the [`.env`](#env) file, using [Express](https://expressjs.com/).

* `npm run build` compiles CSS files using [gulp-sass](https://www.npmjs.com/package/gulp-sass), then compiles TypeScript and bundles JavaScript using [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/).

* `npm run watch` first runs the `build` task, then watches the relevant directories and reruns the `build` task if it sees any changes.

* `npm run lintCss` lints all SCSS files using [stylelint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/stylelint).

* `npm run lintJs` lints all JavaScript and TypeScript files using [eslint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/eslint).

* `npm run lint` runs the `lintCss` and `lintJs` scripts.

* `npm start` runs both the `server` and `watch` tasks simultaneously.

* `npm test` lints and compiles any TypeScript, then runs any configured test suites using [Jasmine](https://jasmine.github.io/).

* `npm run prepare` first removes directories containing compiled files, then runs the `test` script. You should never need to run this script manually, [the `prepare` script runs automatically](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/using-npm/scripts#life-cycle-scripts).

Usually, you will just want to run `npm start`.

### .env

The `.env` file contains the following environment variables:

* `PROJECT_NAME` `(string)`

If present, used by [Express](https://expressjs.com/) to set up redirects for emulating [GitHub Pages](#github-pages).

* `MODE` `(string 'development' | 'production')`

Used by Webpack to determine what optimisations to use and how to generate sourcemaps.

* `PORT` `(int)`

Used by [Express](https://expressjs.com/) to determine which port to use when running a local Node.js server.

An example `.env` file you can use for development is:

```
PROJECT_NAME = "base-package"
MODE = "development"
PORT = "8080"
```

This file is intended to differ from environment to environment, so it is ignored by Git.

## Dependencies

None.

## Dev Dependencies

### Development

These dependencies are used when working on the project locally.

* [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/): Runtime environment

* [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/): Package manager

* [Gulp](https://gulpjs.com/): Task runner

* [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/): JavaScript extension for static type checking

* [Jasmine](https://jasmine.github.io/): Testing framework

	* [@types/jasmine](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@types/jasmine): TypeScript types for Jasmine

* [sass](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sass): Compiling CSS from [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/)

	* [gulp-sass](https://www.npmjs.com/package/gulp-sass): Using the `sass` compiler with Gulp

* [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/): For JavaScript dependency management, used with Gulp

	* [ts-loader](https://github.com/TypeStrong/ts-loader): For compiling TypeScript using Webpack

	* [resolve-typescript-plugin](https://github.com/softwareventures/resolve-typescript-plugin): For using ES Module syntax with Webpack's `ts-loader`

* [Express](https://expressjs.com/): Running a Node.js server, accessed at `http://localhost:<PORT>`

* [Concurrently](https://www.npmjs.com/package/concurrently): Running server and development build tasks concurrently

* [dotenv](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv): Reading environment variables from [`.env`](#env) file

* [eslint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/eslint): Linting TypeScript files

	* [@typescript-eslint/eslint-plugin](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@typescript-eslint/eslint-plugin): Allows `eslint` to lint TypeScript

	* [@typescript-eslint/parser](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@typescript-eslint/parser): Allows `eslint` to parse TypeScript

* [stylelint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/stylelint): Linting CSS

	* [stylelint-config-recommended-scss](https://www.npmjs.com/package/stylelint-config-recommended-scss): Allows `stylelint` to lint SCSS files, and provides a base set of SCSS linting rules

### Deploy

These dependencies are used for deploying the project to GitHub Pages.

* [checkout](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/checkout): Used to check out the repository to a workspace so it can be built

* [Deploy to GitHub Pages](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/deploy-to-github-pages): Used to deploy the project to GitHub pages once it has been built
